易形空间 向量数据库管理系统
管理器版本：v1.0

声明：本管理器是为方便用户使用而免费提供的辅助工具，其源码不包括在任何版本所提供代码范围。


若您是仅运行向量数据库系统进行测试，推荐运行bin/YiShape.exe启动图形界面使用；
若您是要将本软件作为WINDOWS系统服务开机后自动运行，请运行scripts/InstallService.bat。


一、软件简介及运行条件
本软件为简化“易形空间 向量数据库管理系统”安装部署而设计，目的是一键启动系统，免去安装多个支持环境软件的繁琐。

系统运行条件需求如下：
操作系统：64位WIN 10以上Wiindows系统（Unix/Linux请使用标准JAVA系统部署方式，32位系统可用内存过小，不支持。）
物理内存：>4G


二、运行步骤
运行本目录中的YiShape.exe文件的快捷方式或者直接运行bin/YiShape.exe，运行后应出现软件图形界面。

启动系统前请确认您将要使用的软件端口号。Windows上查看已经占用的端口的方法是在开始菜单的“运行”中输入：
CMD  打开命令窗口，然后输入以下命令：
netstat -ano
为本软件配置一个未被使用的端口（本软件默认配置的端口是7090）。

端口配置完成后点击“启动”以启动数据库系统服务器，整个启动过程需要3秒左右，请耐心等待；
日志窗口显示启动完成后，点击“访问用户端”打开系统前端，点击“访问管理端”打开系统管理入口；

管理端的默认用户及密码为：admin  123456


三、系统访问
本系统为B/S结构软件，软件启动后在本机当然可以访问，但系统的主要目的是作为服务器软件使用。在网络中只要有一台计算机运行了本软件，其它计算机都可以通过浏览器远程访问本系统。
假设运行本系统的计算机（服务器）IP地址为：192.168.1.1，软件的端口号为：7090，则其它计算机访问本系统的方法为：
打开浏览器，在地址栏输入： http://192.168.1.1:7090
请确保运行本系统的计算机已经开放了防火墙对应端口。


四、注册系统服务
运行批处理文件bin/InstallService.bat会将本软件注册为系统服务，开机时自动启动；
运行批处理文件bin/UninstallService.bat会将本软件从系统服务中卸载，开机时自动启动；
注意：批处理文件将软件注册到系统服务时，会自动启动后台服务，为防止端口冲突，注册系统服务时请确保本软件的图形界面软件处于关闭状态（系统托盘图标上 - 右键 - 退出）。



六、数据备份与恢复
数据文件默认位于.\bin\db_data目录中，请定期将此文件夹备份到其它地址。恢复数据时请应首先关闭系统程序（右键操作右下角的程序图标退出），然后将系统中的db_data目录替换为要恢复的备份的db_data目录。
切忌：替换 指的是把db_data目录删除或者剪切到其它地上，而不是直接覆盖。用备份文件直接覆盖数据有可能导致部分文件无法被替换或者出现当前系统无法识别的数据文件，永久性造成数据错误和系统崩溃。


七、软件升级
本软件升级时请直接从官网下载最新的易形空间 向量数据库管理系统 软件。
若要恢复原来的数据，请参照 六 中的方法。


技术支持：
研发：电子科技大学大数据与决策分析研究中心
运维与支持：成都无标度网络科技有限公司
网址：http://www.yishape.com
联系地址：成都市高新西区西源大道2006号
Email: Lteb2002@163.com
2025.8


YiShape Space Vector Database Management System
Manager Version: v1.0

Statement: This manager is a free auxiliary tool provided for user convenience. Its source code is not included in any version of the provided code.

If you are only running the vector database system for testing, it is recommended to launch the graphical interface using bin/YiShape.exe.
If you intend to run this software as a Windows system service for automatic startup, please run scripts/InstallService.bat.

I. Software Introduction and Operating Conditions
This software is designed to simplify the installation and deployment of the "YiShape Space Vector Database Management System," aiming to provide a one-click startup solution and eliminate the complexity of installing multiple supporting environment software.

System Operating Requirements:

Operating System: 64-bit Windows 10 or above Windows
System ForUnix/Linux, please use the standard Java system deployment method.32−bit systems are notsupported due to insufficient available memory.
Physical Memory: >4GB
II. Operating Steps
Run the shortcut of the YiShape.exe file in this directory or directly run bin/YiShape.exe. The graphical interface of the software should appear after launching.

Before starting the system, please confirm the port number you intend to use. To check the occupied ports on Windows, open the Command Prompt by entering CMD in the "Run" dialog from the Start menu, and then enter the following command:

netstat -ano  
Configure an unused port for this software the default port configured for this software is 7090.

After configuring the port, click "Start" to launch the database system server. The startup process takes approximately 3 seconds; please be patient.
Once the log window displays that the startup is complete, click "Access Client" to open the system frontend, or click "Access Admin Portal" to open the system management entrance.

The default username and password for the admin portal are:
Username: admin
Password: 123456

III. System Access
This system is a B/S Browser/Server architecture software. Once the software is launched, it can be accessed locally. However, the primary purpose of the system is to function as server software. As long as one computer on the network runs this software, other computers can remotely access the system via a browser.

Assuming the IP address of the computer server running this software is 192.168.1.1 and the port number is 7090, other computers can access the system by:
Opening a browser and entering the following in the address bar:

http://192.168.1.1:7090  
Please ensure that the firewall on the computer running this software has the corresponding port open.

IV. Registering System Service
Running the batch file bin/InstallService.bat will register this software as a system service, enabling automatic startup upon boot.
Running the batch file bin/UninstallService.bat will uninstall this software from the system services, disabling automatic startup.

Note: When registering the software as a system service, the background service will automatically start. To prevent port conflicts, ensure that the graphical interface of this software is closed right−click the system tray icon and select "Exit" when registering the system service.

VI. Data Backup and Recovery
The data files are located in the .\bin\db_data directory by default. Please regularly back up this folder to another location. To restore data, first close the system program exit by right−clicking the program icon in the system tray, then replace the db_data directory in the system with the backup db_data directory.

Important: "Replace" means deleting or moving the existing db_data directory to another location, not directly overwriting it. Directly overwriting data with backup files may cause some files to fail to be replaced or result in unrecognized data files, permanently leading to data errors and system crashes.

VII. Software Upgrade
To upgrade this software, please download the latest version of the "YiShape Space Vector Database Management System" directly from the official website.
To restore original data, please refer to the method described in Section VI.

Technical Support:

R&D: Big Data and Decision Analysis Research Center, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China
Operations and Support: Chengdu Scale-Free Network Technology Co., Ltd.
Website: http://www.yishape.com
Address: 2006 Xiyuan Avenue, West Hi-Tech Zone, Chengdu
Email: Lteb2002@163.com
Aug., 2025